# minishell

This project implements a foundational command-line interface (CLI) a "minishell" that mimics core functionalities of popular shells like bash.

## Authors

- [zmin](https://profile-v3.intra.42.fr/users/zmin)
- [wmin-kha](https://profile-v3.intra.42.fr/users/wmin-kha)

## Run

To run this project

```bash
  make
  ./minishell
```

## File & Folder

| Folder      | Description                            |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------- |
| lexer       | Tokenize the user input string.        |
| parser      | Transform tokens into node.            |
| prompt      | Read user input string.                |
| buildins    | Buildins command of minishell.         |
| executor    | Execute nodes.                         |
| exit_status | Handle exit status of the processes.   |
| utils       | Utilities needed a cross the funtions. |
| validation  | Validation funtions.                   |

## Execution Flow

The execution flow is divided into five distinct, sequential phases, ensuring robust handling of user input, command interpretation, and execution.

#### The Execution Lifecycle

The minishell operates in a continuous loop, processing one line of user input at a time through the following structured pipeline:

- main.c (Entry Point): The program starts here. It initializes the environment.
- prompt: This module presents the user with the command prompt (e.g., $ or minishell> ), waits for input, reads the command line string, and handles basic input integrity before passing the raw string to the next stage.
- lexer (Lexical Analysis): The lexer breaks down the raw input string into fundamental building blocks, known as "tokens." It identifies individual commands, arguments, operators (like pipes |, redirects <, >), and handles quoted sections correctly, preparing the data for structured interpretation.
- parser (Syntactic Analysis): The parser takes the flat list of tokens from the lexer and builds a structured, hierarchical representation of the command sequence, typically an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) or a linked list of command nodes but here array of nodes. This phase determines the relationship between commands, pipes, and redirections, ensuring the input makes logical sense.
- executor (Execution): The final stage traverses the structured command representation generated by the parser. It sets up necessary file descriptors, forks child processes, handles built-in commands, connects pipes, and ultimately executes the intended programs, managing the flow of input and output correctly.
